I've been active on omg.lol ("the best internet address that you’ve ever had") for several months now, and have really been enjoying my stay. omg.lol provides a number of delightfully-simple services, and it ties them together with a friendly API.

=> https://home.omg.lol/ omg.lol homepage
=> https://api.omg.lol/ omg.lol API documentation

Last month, I made use of the Pastebin API to power near-realtime weather information on my omg.lol profile page:

=> /gemlog/2024-02-08-weather-profile-lol.gmi (Near) Realtime Weather on profile.lol

Last night, I crafted some quick GitHub Actions workflows to talk to the Now Page and Web endpoints and make updates to those pages with simple git commits.

## Benefits
This brings a few benefits:
* I can make changes without having to log in to the omg.lol dashboard
* I can write updates with an editor like VS Code instead of a tiny frame in a web page
* I'll preserve version-controlled histories of each page in case I break stuff
* And it opens the doors to additional automation capabilities down the road

## Process
I wound up with a pair of actions for each page.

### Fetch Now Page
The first periodically fetches the latest version of the page from the API and commits it to the repo (in case it gets modified outside of git):
```fetch-now.yml
name: Fetch Now Page
on:
  schedule:
    - cron: "* */4 * * *"

jobs:
  fetch-now-page:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Fetch Now Page
        run: |
          curl --location --header "Authorization: Bearer ${{ secrets.OMG_TOKEN }}" \
            "https://api.omg.lol/address/${{ secrets.OMG_ADDR }}/now" | \
            jq -r .response.now.content > now.md
      - name: Commit Now Page
        uses: stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action@v4
        with:
          commit_message: 'fetch /now page'
          file_pattern: 'now.md'
```
This will run every four hours, and uses `git-auto-commit-action` to commit new versions of `now.md` as needed.

=> https://github.com/marketplace/actions/git-auto-commit Git Auto Commit on GitHub Marketplace

### Update Now Page
And the second workflow is used for sending a modified now page back to omg.lol:
```update-now.yml
name: Update Now Page
on:
  push:
    paths:
      - 'now.md'

jobs:
  update-now-page:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Update Now Page
        run: |
          request_body='{"listed": "1", "content": '"$(jq -Rsa . now.md)"'}'
          curl --location --request POST --header "Authorization: Bearer ${{ secrets.OMG_TOKEN }}" \
            "https://api.omg.lol/address/${{ secrets.OMG_ADDR }}/now" \
            --data "$request_body"
```
This one is triggered by any `git push` with a commit which modifies the `now.md` file.

## Web Updates
I'm handling the web page updates in basically the same way, with the minor adjustment of needing to manage the web content, css, and custom head independently:

```fetch-web.yaml excerpt
      - name: Fetch Web Page
        run: |
          response=$(curl --location --header "Authorization: Bearer ${{ secrets.OMG_TOKEN }}" \
            "https://api.omg.lol/address/${{ secrets.OMG_ADDR }}/web" | \
            jq -r .response)
          jq -r .content <<< $response > web.md
          jq -r .css <<< $response > web.css
          jq -r .head <<< $response > web_head.html
```

```update-web.yml excerpt
      - name: Update Web Page
        run: |
          request_body='{"publish": true, "content": '"$(jq -Rsa . web.md)"', "css": '"$(jq -Rsa . web.css)"', "head": '"$(jq -Rsa . web_head.html)"'}'
          curl --location --request POST --header "Authorization: Bearer ${{ secrets.OMG_TOKEN }}" \
            "https://api.omg.lol/address/${{ secrets.OMG_ADDR }}/web" \
            --data "$request_body"
```

The full code (as well as my weather hijinks) are in my lolz repo. Feel free to steal and improve upon it!

=> https://github.com/jbowdre/lolz John's lolz on GitHub
