I've been using Obsidian[1] for managing my thoughts and notes and references for a few years. I've toyed a few times with using Obsidian Publish[2] to share some of those notes publicly, but I wasn't sure I'd get enough benefit from that to justify the $8/mo subscription *just* for Publish.

=> https://obsidian.md/ 1: Obsidian
=> https://obsidian.md/publish 2: Obsidian Publish

Plus I'd rather host on a system I control.

Well yesterday I stumbled across Quartz:

> Quartz is a fast, batteries-included static-site generator that transforms Markdown content into fully functional websites.

Hugo, Jekyll, and 11ty are also SSGs which convert Markdown files into functional websites, but Quartz is optimized for the digital garden[1]approach of less-polished posts which can grow and connect together organically. It's a great way to collect (and share) bits of knowledge, and a great complement to how I already work with Obsidian.

=> https://jzhao.xyz/posts/networked-thought 1: digital garden

So I decided to give Quartz a try, and I'm quite impressed with it so far. You can see what I've got here:

- notes.runtimeterror.dev[1]
=> https://notes.runtimeterror.dev 1: notes.runtimeterror.dev

This is being served from one of my cloud servers, and is deployed to there through a GitHub Actions workflow[1] I cobbled together for that purpose. That GitHub repo holds a new safe-for-public-consumption Obsidian Vault, and I can publish new notes by simply writing them in Obsidian and then running:

=> https://github.com/jbowdre/notes/blob/a2255ba40561f6754fbefca3d901847f7bb546f5/.github/workflows/deploy.yaml 1: GitHub Actions workflow

```
npx quartz sync
```

That syncs the changes to the repo and fires off the workflow, which builds the site and uses Tailscale SSH to push it to the server.

Neat!

=> https://blog.jbowdre.lol/post/publishing-my-obsidian-vault-with-quartz 📡 Originally posted on jbowdre's weblog
