*Here's what I've been up to since the last weekly status[1]...*

=> /this-week-2024-07-19/ 1: last weekly status

### (Another) New Blog Post

As promised last week, I followed up a length post on how to use Packer to build VM templates on Promox[1] with another deep-dive on automating the template builds with GitHub Actions[2]. That second post went a lot more quickly than the first, which was a relief - I wasn't really prepared to sit on it for another ~6 weeks.

=> https://runtimeterror.dev/building-proxmox-templates-packer/ 1: a length post on how to use Packer to build VM templates on Promox
=> https://runtimeterror.dev/automate-packer-builds-github-actions/ 2: automating the template builds with GitHub Actions

I've been using that GitHub Actions setup to build fresh templates in my homelab every week, and it feels great to finally have the whole setup documented.

### 0.001 Seconds

Today was our club's seventh autocross event of the year. Those races are always a highlight of my month, but the competition today was particularly satisfying. After some intense back-and-forth action, I was pretty pleased with this 51.779-second run which put me comfortably in second place:

View on YouTube[1]

=> https://youtu.be/U0EKRsuZXzM 1: View on YouTube

... until a competitor finished with a *51.778*, knocking me every-so-slightly back into third.

0.001 seconds isn't very long, but makes for some really exciting racing!

### In Other News...

- I'm still surviving the Great CrowdStrike Outage of 2024. I haven't been directly impacted but I have been following the developments pretty closely. Large-scale failures are kind of fascinating and offer a lot of opportunities for learning how to do better. I just hope CrowdStrike is learning a *lot* from this.

- I'm reading Truth of the Divine[1] by Lindsay Ellis. It has been a few years since I read Axiom's End[2], the first in the series, and I'm kind of wishing I had re-read it before starting the sequel. I really suck at remembering what happened from one book to the next.

=> https://openlibrary.org/works/OL24198736W/Truth_of_the_Divine?edition=ia%3Atruthofdivineboo0000lind 1: Truth of the Divine
=> https://openlibrary.org/works/OL20914838W/Axiom%27s_End?edition=ia%3Aaxiomsendnovel0000elli 2: Axiom's End

- I had put the Golong learning on pause while I focused on getting those Packer-related blog posts published. I'm looking forward to picking that back up!
### Top Scrobble

My most-played track of the week:

🎧 Clarity by ZEDD[1]

=> https://musicthread.app/link/2jqwfIfd3ecf0VE58Lx5kGvs0UF 1: Clarity by ZEDD

=> https://blog.jbowdre.lol/this-week-2024-07-27/ 📡 Originally posted on jbowdre's weblog 
