*These "week in review" posts seem to be pretty popular so I thought I'd jump on that trend, too. Also, I struggle to post regularly. I tell myself it's because I'm busy building things (and documenting things), but Robert Birming assures me that there is always time to write[1]. So let's give that a try.*

=> https://birming.com/no-time-write/ 1: always time to write

This was a busy week at work (that seems to be a trend of late), but I still managed to find time for some fun personal projects and self-improvement.

### Rocket Surgery

Last weekend, I started building[1] the LEGO Artemis Space Launch System model[2]. I was only able to drag out construction for a week, and I didn't go over budget, either. I really don't get why Boeing had such trouble with this build.

=> https://social.lol/@jbowdre/112662255926100056 1: started building
=> https://www.lego.com/en-us/product/nasa-artemis-space-launch-system-10341 2: LEGO Artemis Space Launch System model

### ChillFeed

Last weekend I *also* began developing a lightweight feed aggregator based on my rather specific preferences. I used Claude[1] to help me rapidly prototype and iterate on my ideas, and had a working demo about two hours after the idea first popped into my head. It doesn't track read/unread status (unread indicators stress me out) and doesn't display the full text of any post (I'd rather see what the author wrote on their site than in a stripped-down form). It uses GitHub Actions to refresh the subscribed feeds and uses GitHub Pages to provide the web interface. And it's configured with YAML. I'm still doing a lot of tweaking but I've been quite pleased using ChillFeed[2] to follow blogs this week.

=> https://www.anthropic.com/claude 1: Claude
=> https://github.com/chillfeed/chillfeed/ 2: ChillFeed

### Cycling

I (along with many others, apparently) picked up cycling during lockdown, and I've done a reasonably good job of keeping with it. I try to ride three times a week, and aim for at least 12 miles each ride. I had been doing those rides primarily on the multi-use paths near my home, but lately I'm doing more and more of those rides on the road. That seems to give me a much better workout, and this week I hit a few personal records along the way. It feels good, man!

### In other news...

- I moved some of the more personal (that is, about me rather than a piece of technology) slash pages from my runtimeterror blog[1] over here: namely, /uses[2] and /save[3]. My thinking is this blog will be a more logical place for stuff about me rather than just the technology I play with (though there's of course going to be a ton of crossover there).
=> https://runtimeterror.dev/ 1: runtimeterror blog
=> /uses/ 2: /uses
=> /save/ 3: /save

- Semi-related, I finally figured out how to use Hugo's link render-hook templates[1] to flag external links with a little ↗ indicator so I implemented that on the other site. Maybe I can figure out a CSS-based approach to do that here too.
- I built on last week's work[2] on using Cabin analytics to track upvotes on Bear posts and added a similar "kudos" function[3] to runtimeterror.
- A fun side project at work this week was creating a GitHub Actions workflow to help us decide where we should go for lunch each day. It's another excuse for me to keep practicing building stuff with Go, and I think it's helping some of the other team members get a better understanding of how GitHub Actions workflows work.
- I've been *s l o w l y* reading the O'Reilly Production Kubernetes[4] book for what seems like ages. I finally finished it last night.🎉 It gave me a lot of good insight and things to consider when it comes to building a production Kubernetes platform. My next "for learning" book will probably be something Go-related.

=> https://gohugo.io/render-hooks/links/ 1: Hugo's link render-hook templates
=> /tracking-bear-upvotes-from-my-cabin/ 2: last week's work
=> https://runtimeterror.dev/kudos-with-cabin/ 3: similar "kudos" function
=> https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/production-kubernetes/9781492092292/ 4: O'Reilly Production Kubernetes

### Top scrobble

My most-played track of the week:

🎧 LoST by Bring Me The Horizon[1]

=> https://musicthread.app/link/2iaBglbchB4b8l55ZXioOHatRcO 1: LoST by Bring Me The Horizon

=> https://blog.jbowdre.lol/this-week-2024-06-29/ 📡 Originally posted on jbowdre's weblog 
